So welcome back, guys.
Now, next, we will going to discuss the concept of recursive dependency.
So let us first discuss the prerequisite knowledge required in order to understand the concept of recursive
dependency.
So there are two types of usage of a structure, the pointer usage and the complete usage.
So now let us try to understand that how a structure can be used in two different ways.
That is point of usage and complete usage with the help of an example.
So consider a structure below so you can see that it is a simple structure with four members.
The first is the name of the employer.
The second member is the employee I.D. The third member is actually the information about designation
of the employee.
So designation is actually the structure which is defined somewhere else.
Here you can assume that designation is some structure which contains some set of fields.
Right?
Similarly, occupation is some structure which contains some set of fields.
So now here you can see that the structure employee has two special members which are actually reference
to the other type of structures.
Now, the way the designation is structure has been used inside this structure is called as complete
usage of this structure.
Right.
And the way the occupational structure has been used inside the employee structure is called point of
usage.
Right.
So now what is the difference between the two?
Of course, the difference seems to be obvious.
Now, let us go through these two points, a compiler must know the complete size of the structure at
the compile time, right?
So a compiler will pass this structure from top to bottom.
And if the compiler is able to calculate the complete size of this structure, which is equal to the
size of each individual field of this structure, then the compiler will be able to compile the definition
of this structure.
Right.
And this is what the point is, that compiler must know the size of each individual fields of the structure
definition it is compiling.
Right.
So if I now ask you one question that what is the size of this structure and of course, please ignore
the petting bites, then you will see that the size of this structure is 32 bites, right.
Then unsigned end.
That does let us suppose that the size of unsigned into four bites.
Right.
And let us suppose that the size of designation, a structure, let's say 20 bites, for example.
And let us say that it is a 32 bit machine.
Therefore, the size of all the point, the variables will going to be for whites.
So please remember that on a 32 bit machine, the size of all point, the variables are four bytes.
It doesn't matter at that point.
The variable is of what type.
If it is a pointer variable, then it will be a four bytes.
Similarly, on a 64 bit machine, the size of a pointer variable is always eight bytes.
So here you can see that the compiler knows the size of each individual member feels of the structure,
and therefore the compiler will be able to compile the definition of this structure and apply here.
I have assumed that the definition of structure designation is already seen by the compiler.
And therefore, the compiler knows that the size of designation, a structure is 20 bytes.
Now we are in a position to discuss the concept of recursive dependency.
So now going forward, so let us discuss the concept of recourse of dependency with the help of an example,
suppose you have a source file a Nazi and inside that file, you have defined two structures that implies
structure and the occupation structure.
Right now, when the compiler compiles the source file, the compiler passes the file from top to bottom.
Right.
So when the compiler compiles this employee structure, it will find that the size of the first member
field is 32 bytes.
The size of a second member field is full of bytes.
But what is the size of this field?
Right.
The compiler has not yet seen the definition of a structured employee, so the compiler would not know
the size of this occupation field.
It means that the compiler will not be able to compile this file and it will report an error.
Similarly, the same problem exists with the structure occupation.
When the compiler compiles this structure definition, it will compile the first member field and it
will know that the size of this field is 32 bytes.
The size of a second field is four bytes.
But what is the size of this field, which is of type employer?
So the root cause of the entire problem is that that the compiler must see the definition of occupation
a structure before the definition of the structure employer.
Now let us try to scrap the position of the structure definition in a while.
Don't see.
So now you can see that the definition of structured occupation comes first.
And after that the definition of a structure employee comes in the source while the compiler again compiles
this file from top to bottom.
Now the compiler compiles this structure definition field by field.
So it will compile this field, it will compile this field because it already knows the size of this
field.
But now the compiler is stuck here.
It will say that, hey, I have not yet encountered the definition of structure employee, so I don't
know what is the size of this field.
So again, your compilation fields, so you can see the correlation between these two version of source
files because the two structure definitions are dependent on one another.
Recursively that is, the implied structure is dependent on occupational structure and occupation.
The structure is dependent on employer structure.
So in whatever order you define the definition of these two structures in a source file, you will not
be able to compile your program.
So this is a kind of chicken or egg problem, right?
So I would suggest you to write a simple source file and define the definition of these two structures
in the way I have done and try to compile your program.
So let me show you the demonstration so you can see that on the right hand side, I have defined the
two structures exactly the same way that we have discussed just now.
So I'm trying to compile this file on the left hand side, and you can see that the compiler will report
an error, right?
So you can see that the compiler is complaining in line number five that is in this line that the field
or C has incomplete type.
It means that the size of the data type of field O.S.S. is not known to the compiler.
It simply means this.
In other words, the compiler has not yet seen the structure definition of the structure, O.S.S. underscore
de.
So please remember, if you encountered a compilation error such as this, that is field something,
something has incomplete type.
It means that the compiler is not aware of the structure which you are trying to use as a member field
within another structure.
So I hope I'm able to explain the problem of recursive dependency.
And now let us discuss the solution of this problem.